---
author: Jürgen Schwarz
layout: post
title: Mining Bug Reports
categories: R, Data Mining, bugs
---


###It's not a bug, it's a feature!

Software engineering processes are complex, and the related activities often 
produce a large number and variety of artefacts, making them well-suited to 
data mining. Sources of information are for example code repositories 
and bug tracking systems.

<!-- more -->

#### Static code analysis

Tools for static code analysis scan source or byte code for so called 
_bug patterns_ to find defects and suspicious code. This is a common standard 
in a modern software development process. A comprehensive introduction can be 
found at [Zeroturnaround](http://zeroturnaround.com/rebellabs/developers-guide-static-code-analysis-findbugs-checkstyle-pmd-coverity-sonarqube/).



#### Mining source code repositories

Advanced data mining techniques are mostly part of the current academic 
research, but emerging application areas are software reliability and 
measuring and predicting the evolution of a software system. Useful 
insights can be generated by the analysis of some sinmple heuristics:

 * code fragments that changed frequently together in the past are likely to 
change frequently in the future
 * prior bugs and prior changes are the best bug predictors, i.e., code that 
has bugs in the past is likely to have bugs in the future
 


#### Topic models and Latent Dirichlet Allocation

With the rise of big data the analysis of unstructured data became very 
popular. Unstructured here means that the underlying structure is not 
easily recognizable by classical algorithms. Humans can understand natural 
speech and written literature, even music. Computers and machines also can 
exchange data and communicate over networks, but this is strictly regulated 
by digital communication protocols (see for example the OSI reference model 
for further details).
  
Text mining algorithms are designed to extract information from unstructured 
text. Topic modeling allows us to uncover the hidden thematic structure in 
document collections using a special form of text mining.



#### Conclusion


Some interesting links:

 * Conway's Law (1967): _Any organization that designs a system (defined 
broadly) will produce a design whose structure is a copy of the 
organization’s communication structure._

 * The [Github Engineering blog](http://githubengineering.com/scientist/) 
recently introduced a library named _Scientist_ to run experiments comparing 
new code against production code.

